>>> ON THIS EDITION FOR SUNDAY
OCTOBER 27, IMMIGRATION IS BAC
IN THE SPOTLIGHT AS COMPETIN
VISIONS WORK THEIR WAY THROUGH
THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT, RISK
AND REWARD
THE NEW GOVERNMENT RULES THA
WOULD ALLOW MORE AMERICANS T
INVEST IN START-UP BUSINESSES.
>> I THINK IT'S GOING TO LAUNC
A NEW WAY OF ENTREPRENEURSHI
ACROSS THE NATION.
>>> AND MILLIONS GO MISSING FROM
AMERICAN NON-PROFITS
NEXT ON PBS NEWS HOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISH WNET STUDIOS I
NEW YORK, HARI SREENIVASAN
>> GOOD EVENING.
WE LOOK AT THE EFFECT OF THE
SHUTDOWN ON CONGRESS
PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS PRESSED TH
REPUBLICAN-LED HOUSE O
REPRESENTATIVES TO FOLLOW TH
SENATE'S LEAD AND PASS A
IMMIGRATION REFORM BILL.
SPEAKER BOEHNER SAYS IMMIGRATION
REFORM IS AN IMPORTANT SUBJECT
THAT NEEDS TO BE ADDRESSED AND
SAID HE WAS, QUOTE, HOPEFUL.
THIS WEEKEND THE GOVERNOR FROM
CALIFORNIA BECAME THE FIRS
REPUBLICAN THAT SAID HE WOUL
SPONSOR LEGISLATION THAT WOULD
GIVE MILLIONS OF UNDOCUMENTE
IMMIGRANTS A PATHWAY T
CITIZENSHIP.
FOR MORE ON IMMIGRATION REFORM
THIS YEAR, WE'RE JOINED BY
WASHINGTON FROM ALAN GOMEZ
ALAN, FIRST QUESTION
HOW SIGNIFICANT IS THI
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE CALIFORNIA
REPUBLICAN CONGRESSMAN YESTERDAY
THAT HE'LL CO SPONSO
LEGISLATION WITH DEMOCRATS
TALKING ABOUT IMMIGRATION?
>> IF YOU'RE A DEMOCRAT IN THE
HOUSE, IT'S VERY SIGNIFICANT
THEY'RE HOPING HE'S FIRST OF
SEVERAL THAT WILL BE COMING ON
BOARD.
THEY HAVE A MOST WANTED LIST O
ABOUT A DOZEN HOUSE REPUBLICAN
THAT ARE INTERESTED IN SOME SORT
OF BILL THAT INCLUDES A PATHWA
TO CITIZENSHIP
BUT THAT'S ALWAYS GOING TO
REMAIN IN THE MINORITY IN TH
HOUSE.
THERE'S STILL THAT LARGE
CONSERVATIVE BASE OF THE HOUSE
THAT IS JUST UNEASY ABOUT AN
KIND OF BILL THAT PASSES
CITIZENSHIP FOR UNDOCUMENTED
IMMIGRANTS
IT'S A BIG STEP FOR THEM
THEY'RE SEEING THIS AS A WAY T
PUSH FOR AN IMMIGRATION PACKAG
THAT INCLUDES THAT PATHWAY
THEY'RE HOPING TO GET TH
SPEAKER TO DO SOMETHING ALON
THE LINES OF WHAT WE JUST SA
WITH THE SHUTDOWN, WHERE YOU SAW
DEMOCRATS AND A SMALL GROUP OF
REPUBLICANS VOTING TO PASS
SOMETHING, BUT LIKE I SAID
THERE IS STILL A BIG CHUNK O
THAT HOUSE THAT'S RESISTANT TO
THIS
IT'S A SMALL STEP BUT DEFINITELY
THE RIGHT DIRECTION FOR TH
HOUSE DEMOCRATS.
>> SO THEY ONLY NEED THREE DOZEN
VOTES FOR REPUBLICANS TO SWITC
SIDES?
ARE THERE OTHER PIECES O
LEGISLATION THAT ARE WINDING
THEIR WAY THROUGH ABOU
IMMIGRATION?
>> YES, THERE IS QUITE A FEW
AND THIS IS WHAT MAKES THINGS IN
THE HOUSE SO COMPLICATED, AS
ALWAYS
YOU HAVE THIS BILL, IT'S A
DEMOCRATIC BILL.
IT'S GOT ABOUT 180 DEMOCRATI
CO-SPONSORS AND NOW THE ON
REPUBLICAN ONE
THEN YOU KIND OF MOVE INTO THE
MIDDLE OF THE SPECTRUM A LITTL
BIT WHERE YOU GOT SOMEBODY LIK
REPRESENTATIVE DARRELL ISSA, ALS
FROM CALIFORNIA, WHO SHOULD BE
INTRODUCING THIS WEEK A BILL
THAT WOULD ALLOW FOR THE
NATION'S UNDOCUMENTED IMMIGRANTS
WHO APPLY FOR LEGAL STATUS FOR A
PERIOD OF SIX YEARS.
THAT WOULD BE SORT OF AN
INTERMEDIARY WAY OF APPROACHIN
IT, AND THAT'S SOMETHING I KNO
A LOT OF HOUSE REPUBLICANS HAV
BEEN INTERESTED IN BECAUSE THE
DON'T WANT TO SEE ALL 12 MILLION
AS ONE BIG BLOCK
THEY KIND OF WANT TO SPLIT IT UP
IN LITTLE GROUPS AND TREAT THE
DIFFERENTLY.
THEN ON THE OTHER END OF THE
SPECTRUM, YOU HAVE THE HOUSE
REPUBLICAN LEADERSHIP.
THEY'VE BEEN PUSHING THIS PIEC
BY PIECE APPROACH.
THEY'VE BEEN ADVANCING SMALLER
BILLS THAT DEAL WITH SMALL
SECTIONS OF THE IMMIGRATIO
ISSUE, SO BORDER SECURITY, MOR
VISAS FOR HIGH-TECH WORKERS,
MORE VISAS FOR LOW-SKILLED
WORKERS, AND THEY'RE TRYING TO
PROCEED WITH THAT SO THAT THEY
CAN KIND OF ADDRESS SEPARATE
PARTS OF THE IMMIGRATION ISSUE
WITHOUT HAVING TO DO IT ALL AT
ONCE
>> SO IS THIS KEY IDEA O
PATHWAY TO CITIZENSHIP LIKELY TO
CAUSE A SIMILAR RIFT WITHIN TH
REPUBLICAN PARTY BETWEEN
MODERATES AND MORE CONSERVATIV
REPUBLICANS?
>> ABSOLUTELY, ABSOLUTELY.
I MEAN, WE LOOK AT THE
IMMIGRATION DEBATE AS IT'S
CHANGED OVER THE LAST YEAR
THE MAGIC NUMBER REMAINS FOR
REPUBLICANS THE 27% OF HISPANI
VOTERS THAT MITT ROMNEY GOT
YEAR AGO IN THE ELECTION
SO WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE GOP FROM
A NATIONAL PERSPECTIVE, SENATO
McCAIN, OTHER SENATORS IN TH
REPUBLICAN PARTY WHO WER
THINKING ON THE BROADER SCALE,
ON THE NATIONAL SCALE, FOR THE
IT'S VERY IMPORTANT TO INCLUDE
SOMETHING THAT INCLUDES
PATHWAY TO CITIZENSHIP SO THEY
CAN START HAVING A BETTE
CONVERSATION WITH HISPANIC
VOTERS WHO CONTINUE TO INCREASE,
WHO CONTINUE TO BE A BIGGE
PORTION OF THE ELECTORATE.
BUT AT THE SAME TIME, WHEN YOU
LOOK AT THESE HOUSE MEMBERS, A
LOT OF THEM, JUST FROM 2010 TO
2012, AFTER REDISTRICTING, HOUSE
REPUBLICANS REPRESENT 6.
MILLION FEWER MINORITIES
NOW THEIR DISTRICTS ARE, O
AVERAGE, UP TO 75% WHITE
SO THERE ARE JUST DOZENS AND
DOZENS AND DOZENS OF HOUSE
REPUBLICANS WHO HAVE JUST
TINY, TINY FRACTION OF
MINORITIES IN THEIR DISTRICT, SO
FOR THEM, THIS IDEA OF THE
GRANDER PARTY TRYING TO APPEAL
TO HISPANICS IS NOT AS IMPORTANT
FOR THEM
IT DOESN'T REALLY RESONATE BAC
IN THEIR HOME DISTRICT, SO FOR
THEM IT'S NOT THAT IMPORTANT
SO I WOULD SAY THERE IS A GOOD
GOOD CHUNK OF THAT HOUSE THAT IS
JUST RESISTANT TO ANYTHING THA
INCLUDES A PATHWAY T
CITIZENSHIP AS MANY OF THE
REFER TO IT AS AMNESTY, SO THERE
IS ABSOLUTELY GOING TO BE THAT
FRICTION
HOUSE SPEAKER BOEHNER IS BAC
WHERE HE NEEDS TO BE THESE DAY
TRYING TO CORRAL DIFFERENT SIDES
OF HIS CAUCUS.
>> WHAT'S THE LIKELIHOOD
THEY HAVE SUCH A SMALL WINDO
LEFT
>> THEY DO
THERE'S ONLY, I THINK, ABOUT 1
LEGISLATIVE DAYS LEFT IN THI
CALENDAR YEAR.
OBVIOUSLY, THAT CAN STRETCH INTO
NEXT YEAR A LITTLE BIT
THE LIKELIHOOD, IF I KNEW THAT
I WOULD BE WRITING THAT STOR
RIGHT NOW AT MY DESK
IT'S VERY DIFFICULT TO GET THI
THROUGH, BUT THEY DO HAVE SOME
TIME, AND THEY HAVE A LOT OF
BILLS TEED UP READY TO GO, READY
TO BE INTRODUCED ON THE HOUS
FLOOR AND TO BE VOTED ON
IF IT HAPPENS, IT COULD HAPPEN
VERY QUICKLY
WE SHOULD KNOW A LOT MORE IN THE
NEXT COUPLE WEEKS.
>> ALAN GOMEZ FROM USA TODAY
THANKS SO MUCH
>> THANK YOU
>>> NEW REVELATIONS TODAY ABOU
THE EXTENT OF U.S. SPYING ON
GERMAN CHANCELLOR ANGELA MERKEL.
THE GERMAN MAGAZINE SAID
MERKEL'S PHONE FIRST APPEARED ON
A LIST OF SPYING TARGETS I
A GERMAN NEWSPAPER QUOTES U.S.
INTELLIGENCE OFFICIALS AS SAYING
PRESIDENT OBAMA WAS INFORMED O
THE SPYING OPERATION IN 2010 BUT
LET IT CONTINUE.
HERE IN NEW YORK, AS THE
ANNIVERSARY OF SUPERSTORM SAND
APPROACHES, THE STATE HA
ANNOUNCED CREATION OF
3-MILLION-GALLON GASOLIN
RESERVE.
THERE WAS A SHORTAGE FOR WEEKS
AFTER THE STORM.
NEW YORK IS CREATING ITS OWN
RESERVE.
>>> ANOTHER WAVE OF VIOLENCE I
IRAQ
PEOPLE WERE KILLED AND DOZEN
WOUNDED AFTER A CAR BOMB
al QAEDA AFFILIATES WERE THOUGHT
TO BE RESPONSIBLE.
>>> FROM SAUDI ARABIA TONIGHT,
SOME OF THE WOMEN WHO PROTESTE
THE BAN AGAINST DRIVING IN THA
COUNTRY YESTERDAY HAVE BEE
FINED OR ARRESTED.
ONE NEWSPAPER SAID 14 WOMEN WERE
DETAINED
OTHER REPORTS SAID AT LEAST 16
WERE FINED THE EQUIVALENT OF
NEARLY $300.
WOMEN ACTIVISTS VOWED TO
CONTINUE THEIR ACTS OF DEFIANCE.
>>> A SETBACK TO ARRANGE A
INTERNATIONAL PEACE CONFERENCE
TO END THE CIVIL WAR IN TREATY
NINE REBEL GROUPS ISSUED A
STATEMENT SAYING THE PROPOSE
MEETING IN GENEVA NEXT MONTH
WOULD AMOUNT TO A TREASON AN
THOSE WHO ATTENDED WOULD BE HELD
ACCOUNTABLE.
THE PRESIDENT OF IRAN SAID I
WOULD PARTICIPATE IF INVITED
>>> IN A SIGN OF CHANGING TIME
IN IRAN, THE MUNICIPAL
GOVERNMENT OF TEHRAN HAS VOTED
THAT BILLBOARDS DENOUNCING THE
UNITED STATES BE TAKEN DOWN.
THE LOCAL GOVERNMENT SAID THEY
WERE PUT UP WITHOUT OFFICIAL
AUTHORIZATION.
>>> AND FINALLY, AN IMPORTAN
FIGURE IN ROCK AND ROLL.
GUITARIST AND SONGWRITER LOU
REED HAS DIED.
HE WAS 71 YEARS OLD.
REED HAD UNDERGONE A LIVER
TRANSPLANT LAST SPRING
AMONG HIS GREATEST HITS WA
"WALK ON THE WILD SIDE."
♪ A WALK ON THE WILD SIDE ♪
♪ BABY, TAKE A WALK ON THE WILD
SIDE ♪♪
>>> AND NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT, ORIGINAL IN-DEPTH
STORIES ABOUT IMPORTANT BU
UNDERREPORTED TOPICS
THIS EVENING WE LOOK AT EFFORT
TO BOOST THE PROSPECTS OF NE
BUSINESSES, A MOVE THAT COUL
LEAD TO MORE JOB CREATION.
THIS PAST WEDNESDAY, THE SEC
PROPOSED RULES THAT WOULD ALLO
ANYONE TO BUY A STAKE IN SMALL
PRIVATE COMPANIES.
IT'S A FORM OF WHAT'S KNOWN AS
CROWD FUNDING, RAISING A BIG
POOL OF MONEY ON LINE FROM MAN
SMALL CONTRIBUTORS
IT REPRESENTS A BIG CHANGE T
DEPRESSION-ERA LAWS DESIGNED T
PROTECT SMALL INVESTORS FROM
RISKY INVESTMENTS.
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT CARL
WORTHY HAS OUR STORY
>> Reporter: HE'S TRYING T
RAISE MONEY FOR HIS START-UP
COMPANY.
IT'S CALLED JUICY CANVAS, AN
ON-LINE BUSINESS THAT ALLOWS
USERS TO CUSTOMIZE ORIGINA
ARTWORK, TO MAKE PRINTS, SHEET
CASES OR MOBILE EQUIPMENT.
IT'S AN IDEA HE THINKS COULD B
HUGE, SO HE'S DOING WHAT MOS
START-UPS DO AT THIS STAGE
TRYING TO SELL HIS IDEA TO BIG
INVESTORS, VENTURE CAPITALISTS
BUT COMPETING FOR THEIR MONEY IS
A TIME-CONSUMING AND DIFFICULT
PROCESS.
IT TAKES FACE-TO-FACE MEETINGS
NETWORKING AND LUCK TO HOOK IN
AN INVESTOR WITH BIG BUCKS
>> THERE IS ONLY SO MUCH THEY'RE
GOING TO INVEST PER YEAR, AN
EVERY HOUR, THERE IS
EXPONENTIALLY MORE AND MORE AN
MORE START-UPS GETTING INTO TH
MARKET, SO IT'S GOING TO B
HARDER FOR US TO KIND OF BUBBL
UP
>> OVERALL NEW BUSINESSE
ACCOUNT FOR --
>> Reporter: BUT NOW START-U
BUSINESSES COULD SOON HAVE
ANOTHER FORM OF CASH
>> FOR START-UP BUSINESSES, THIS
BILL IS A POTENTIAL GAME
CHANGER.
>> Reporter: THAT'S BECAUSE
LITTLE KNOWN PROVISION IN TH
2012 JOBS ACT SIGNED B
PRESIDENT OBAMA ALLOWS
NON-PUBLICLY TRADED COMPANIES TO
USE THE INTERNET TO RAIS
INVESTMENT CAPITAL
IT'S A PRACTICE KNOWN AS CROWD
FUNDING, RAISING A LARGE POOL OF
MONEY FOR MANY SMALL
CONTRIBUTIONS.
COMPANIES COULD RAISE UP TO
MILLION DOLLARS A YEAR
BEFORE THE JOBS ACT, TO INVEST
IN MOST START-UPS, AN INDIVIDUAL
HAD TO BE ACCREDITED, MEANIN
THAT THEY EARNED MORE THAN
$200,000 A YEAR, OR WORSE, A
LEAST A MILLION DOLLARS.
NOW EVEN IF YOU EARN LESS THAN
$100,000 A YEAR, YOU'LL BE
ALLOWED TO INVEST UP TO $2,000
OR 5% OF YOUR ANNUAL INCOME IN
THESE NEW COMPANIES.
>> FOR THE FIRST TIME, ORDINAR
AMERICANS WILL BE ABLE TO GO O
LINE AND INVEST IN ENTREPRENEURS
THAT THEY BELIEVE IN
>> Reporter: THE QUESTION IS
THIS
WILL IT PROVIDE AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR SOMEONE OF ORDINARY MEANS TO
GET IN EARLY ON A POTENTIALL
LUCRATIVE INVESTMENT, OR IS IT A
DISASTROUS ROLLBACK OF LAW
MINUTE TO PROTECT INVESTORS FROM
RISKY INVENTIONS THAT OFTE
FAIL
STEVE CASE CO-FOUNDED AOL AND IS
NOW CEO OF EVOLUTION, AN
INVESTOR FIRM IN WASHINGTON,
D.C.
HE IS CONVINCED THE LAW WOUL
ENCOURAGE THE CREATION OF MORE
START-UPS.
>> I THINK IT WILL UNLEASH A NEW
WAY OF ENTREPRENEURSHIP ACROSS
THE NATION
>> Reporter: CASE WAS ON
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S JOBS COUNCIL
AND WAS A MAJOR SUPPORTER OF THE
JOBS ACT
>> THE JOBS ACT WILL HEL
PROVIDE MORE ENTREPRENEURS I
MORE PLACES AND IN MORE SECTOR
OF OUR ECONOMY THE ABILITY T
RAISE THE CAPITAL, TO GE
STARTED OR TO GROW THEIR
COMPANY.
>> Reporter: ARTURO SAYS THI
NEW LAW COULD HELP HIM RAISE
MONEY.
>> IT WILL ALLOW US TO FOCUS O
GROWTH MUCH FASTER AND NOT HAV
TO DEAL WITH THE STANDARD ANGE
FUNDING VENTURES WE WOULD HAVE
TO GO ON
>> Reporter: IS THIS ALSO GOIN
TO CREATE MORE JOBS?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
IF WE WANT TO GET OUR ECONOMIC
GROWTH UP, THE PLACE TO START IS
START-UPS.
TO MAKE SURE WE'RE COMPETITIVE
THE FOCUS IS START-UPS
>> Reporter: ACCORDING TO TH
BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS, EACH
YEAR SINCE 1994, START-UPS
GAINED MORE OF ALL U.S
BUSINESSES
TO UPGRADE THE LAW SO ANYONE CAN
RAISE MONEY OVER THE INTERNET,
ENTREPRENEURS WILL HAVE MORE
ACCESS TO CAPITAL AND WILL, IN
TURN, CREATE MORE JOBS
>> THE INTERNET DIDN'T EXIST 8
YEARS AGO.
MOST PEOPLE DIDN'T HAV
TELEVISION 80 YEARS AGO.
MOST PEOPLE DIDN'T HAVE CARS 8
YEARS AGO.
THE WORLD HAS CHANGED, AND W
NEED TO REFLECT THAT
>> Reporter: BUT WHAT ABOUT TH
RISK TO INVESTORS?
BUSINESSES WHO MAY HAVE FAILED
TO RAISE ENOUGH MONEY FROM
VENTURE CAPITALISTS.
>> THE ISSUE IS IS IT A GOOD
IDEA FOR INVESTORS
AND I THINK THE ANSWER TO THAT
IS A RESOUNDING NO
>> Reporter: ATTORNEY MARK
STOCKER REPRESENTS INVESTORS
HE SAYS THE NEW PROVISION UNDE
THE JOBS ACT HAS PROTECTION PU
IN PLACE DURING THE GREA
DEPRESSION
>> IF WE CHANGE THEM NOW, WE'R
FORGETTING NOT ONLY WHAT W
LEARNED THEN BUT WHAT WE LEARNED
IN THIS GREAT RECESSION WE JUS
CAME THROUGH
>> Reporter: PEOPLE ARE SAYING
WE'RE JUST BRINGING THESE LAWS
INTO THIS CENTURY.
THE INTERNET WASN'T AROUND BAC
THEN, AND WE REALLY JUST NEED TO
UPDATE THESE LAWS TO REFLECT THE
WAY BUSINESS WORKS NOW
WHAT'S YOUR RESPONSE TO THAT
>> THAT'S CERTAINLY BEEN A PAR
OF THE HUGE MASS APPEAL TO CROWD
FUNDING.
IT SOUNDS KIND OF SEXY AND KIN
OF 21st CENTURY, AND MOS
IMPORTANTLY, KIND OF DEMOCRATI
BECAUSE EVERYONE CAN GET
INVOLVED
THE THING THAT THEY ARE ACTUALLY
ASKING TO BE UPDATED I
TRADITIONAL LIMITATIONS ON THE
ABILITY OF SMALL PRIVATE
COMPANIES TO RAISE MONEY FRO
MOM AND POP RETAIL INVESTORS
THOSE RESTRICTIONS HAVE BEEN I
PLACE HISTORICALLY BECAUSE THOSE
ARE VERY RISKY INVESTMENTS
>> Reporter: ISN'T THERE SOM
BENEFIT TO HAVING THIS OPEN TO
CREDIT INVESTORS THAT ARE MORE
WEALTHY AND MORE SOPHISTICATED
AND KNOW WHAT'S ENTAILED IN TH
RISK AND MORE KNOWLEDGEABLE IN
INVESTING?
>> I UNDERSTAND THE CONCERN, BUT
WE DON'T HAVE THAT LIMITATION IN
TERMS OF LETTING PEOPLE BUY
HOUSE, WHICH IS RISKY.
WE DON'T HAVE THAT LIMITATIO
LETTING PEOPLE INVEST IN THE
STOCK MARKET, WHICH IS RISKY
WE DON'T HAVE THAT LIMITATION IN
TERMS OF PEOPLE GAMBLING IN LA
VEGAS, WHICH IS REALLY RISKY
WHY SHOULD WE TELL PEOPLE THEY
CAN'T INVEST IN START-UPS.
80 YEARS AGO, YOU ESSENTIALL
HAD TO BE A MILLIONAIRE TO
INVEST IN START-UPS.
>> Reporter: I KNOW SOME
SKEPTICS ARE WORRIED ABOUT FRAUD
AND PROTECTING THE INVESTORS
IS THAT SOMETHING YOU'RE
CONCERNED ABOUT, THAT SOME O
THESE MOM AND POP INVESTOR
MIGHT GET FLEECED?
>> THERE IS ALWAYS THE RISK OF
THAT
THE RIGHT PROTECTORS ARE BEING
PUT IN PLACE
80 YEARS AGO, THE INTERNET WAS
JUST STARTING TO BE AN IDEA.
WHEN PEOPLE TALKED ABOUT
E-COMMERCE AND PUT THEIR CREDI
CARDS ON THE INTERNET, PEOPL
SAID, THAT'S NEVER GOING T
HAPPEN
OVER TIME PEOPLE GOT COMFORTABLE
THAT THEY WOULD BE PROTECTED
THESE NEW IDEAS WILL TAKE SOME
TIME TO REALLY SETTLE OUT AN
HAVE THE IMPACT THEY CAN HAVE.
>> BUT THERE'S A CATCH
EVEN THOUGH START-UPS WERE
SUPPOSED TO BE ABLE TO USE THI
NEW TOOL TO RAISE MONEY THE PAST
JANUARY, THE SEC STILL HASN'
COMPLETELY ANALYZED THE CROW
DATA OF THE JOBS ACT
>> THERE ARE COMPANIES GROWING
AND PROVIDING JOBS BUT THE
CAN'T DO THAT BECAUSE THEY DON'T
HAVE THE CAPITOL
>> Reporter: ARTURO WILL B
PRE-SELLING T-SHIRTS TO FUND HIS
BUSINESS
>> Reporter: WHAT KIND OF IMPACT
IS THAT GOING TO HAVE ON YOU
COMPANY?
>> IT WOULD HAVE A MAJOR IMPACT.
IT WOULD LET US DO WHAT WE
REALLY WANT TO DO MUCH FASTER.
YOU'RE JUST GOING TO HAVE A LO
MORE EINSTEINS THAT WOULD NEVE
SEE LIGHT OF DA BE ABLE TO GET
INTO THE MARKET.
THIS COUNTRY IS BUILT ON THAT.
>> DESPITE THE RULES PROPOSA
FROM THE SEC THIS WEEK, CROW
FUNDING FOR INVESTING IS STILL
MONTHS AWAY.
THE RULES ARE OPEN FOR PUBLI
COMMENT THE NEXT 90 DAYS AND
THEN THE COMMISSION WILL DECID
WHETHER OR NOT TO ADOPT THEM
>>> SEE HOW ONE SMALL BUSINESS
OWNER IS ATTRACTING INVESTORS BY
EXERCISING HIS NEW FREEDOM T
ADVERTISE.
VISIT NEWSHOUR.PBS.ORG
>>> A STARTLING REPORT I
TODAY'S "WASHINGTON POST."
THE NEWSPAPER SAYS MORE THAN A
THOUSAND OF THE NATION'S
NON-PROFITS HAVE EAC
ACKNOWLEDGED LOSSES OF A QUARTER
MILLION DOLLARS OR MORE BECAUS
OF THEFT, INVESTMENT FRAUD
EMBEZZLEMENT
EACH EXPOSED THE PROBLEM B
CHECKING A BOX ON THE TAX FORM
INDICATING WHAT'S CALLED A
SIGNIFICANT DIVERSION OF FUNDS
FOR MORE ON THIS, WE'RE JOINED
IN WASHINGTON BY CHRIS STEVENS
HE'S THE CO-AUTHOR OF TODAY'
PIECE.
YOUR ARTICLE SAYS JUST THE TEN
LARGEST LOSSES YOU'VE IDENTIFIED
OUT OF $500 MILLION.
GIVE US SOME EXAMPLES.
>> THAT'S RIGHT, ALMOST HALF A
BILLION DOLLARS.
THEY'RE ALL ACROSS THE BOARD
ALL KINDS OF NON-PROFITS I
MAJOR AMOUNTS.
THE POTENTIAL LOSS WE HAD WA
THIS ONE AND THEY GOT CAUGHT U
IN THE BERNIE MADOFF PONZI
SCHEME, WHICH IS PRETTY FAMOUS
A LOT OF NON-PROFITS GOT CAUGH
UP IN THAT AND LOST TENS O
THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS TO THAT
PONZI SCHEME
SO THAT WAS A MAJOR SENSE OF
LOSSES
HOWEVER, THERE ARE A LOT O
LARGE LOSSES FROM DIFFEREN
SCAMS AND SCHEMES.
THERE IS THE GLOBAL FUND T
FIGHT AIDS
THEY HAD A PROBLEM
THEY FOUND TENS OF MILLIONS OF
DOLLARS HAD GONE MISSING THROUGH
A WHOLE RANGE OF FINANCIAL
PROBLEMS
THEY'RE WORKING ON GETTING SOM
OF THAT MONEY BACK
THERE ARE JEWISH MATERIAL CLAIMS
AGAINST GERMANY WHICH IT PAY
REPUBLIC RATION OF THE SORT.
HE WAS INVOLVED WITH SOM
INSIDERS AND HE TOOK MILL YOND
OF DOLLARS THAT WERE SUPPOSED TO
GO TO HOLOCAUST SURVIVORS.
SOME OF THEM ARE HORRIFIED T
HEAR ABOUT IT.
THE GROUP SAYS THEY INVOLVED
DIRECTORS, BOOKKEEPERS, VERY
LONG
BUT IT ALSO GOES ALL THE WAY
DOWN TO YOUR NEIGHBORHOO
GROUPS: BOY SCOUT GROUPS
VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMEMTS
THIS HASN'T BEEN KNOWN, BECAUS
TO BEGIN WITH, IN THE PAST
BEFORE 2008, THEY DIDN'T HAVE TO
DISCLOSE LIKE THEY DO NOW.
THEY ALSO, WHAT WE FOUND NOW I
THE NEW REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
REQUIRE YOU NOT ONLY TO CHEC
THAT BOX, THAT YOU ATTACH
DESCRIPTION OF WHAT HAPPENED T
YOUR ANNUAL DISCLOSURE FORM.
WHAT WE FOUND IS -
>> SORRY
IN YOUR REPORTING THERE, I
ACTUALLY SHOWS THAT NO
EVERYBODY CHOSE TO DISCLOSE WHAT
WAS HAPPENING.
AND SO WHEN YOU LOOK AT EVEN
THESE FINDINGS, WHICH AR
STARTLING, BUT THIS IS OF TH
PEOPLE WHO CHOSE TO DISCLOSE IT,
OF THE PEOPLE THAT ACTUALL
CHECKED THE BOX, OF THE PEOPLE
WHO ARE REGISTERED OF ALL TH
NON-PROFITS THAT ARE OUT THERE
SO REALLY, HOW MUCH BIGGER I
THIS PROBLEM
>> THAT'S EXACTLY RIGHT.
MORE THAN A THOUSAND, WE FOUND
IS JUST A SLIVER OF THE TOTA
UNIVERSE, AND IT MAKES I
ABSOLUTELY IMPOSSIBLE TO
ESTIMATE HOW BIG THE LOSSES ARE.
BUT THEY OBVIOUSLY ARE LARGE
THAN WE HAD KNOWN AND A LOT OF
KIND OF GRITTY DETAILS IN THES
REPORTS.
BUT THE OTHER MAJOR FINDING OF
OUR INVESTIGATION IS THAT AN
AWFUL LOT OF THESE GROUPS AREN'T
GIVING OUT MANY DETAILS.
EVEN THE ONE THAT CHECKED TH
BOX.
SAIFL WE HAD A MAJOR DIVERSION
THEY DON'T REALLY DISCLOSE WHA
HAPPENED
A LOT OF THEM DON'T EVEN GIVE.
MANY SO IT RAISE AZ LOT OF
QUESTIONS OF WHAT REALLY I
GOING ON OUT THERE, HOW BAD IS
IT
BUT WHAT WE'VE SEEN IS BAD
ENOUGH
>> DO YOU THINK THIS COULD TUR
AND LET PEOPLE BE SMARTER ABOU
IT AND HOLD THE ORGANIZATION
THEY DONATE TO MORE ACCOUNTABLE.
>> JUST BECAUSE A GROUP HAS BEEN
VICTIMIZED IN AND OF ITSEL
DOESN'T MEAN IT'S A BA
ORGANIZATION OR THEY DID
ANYTHING WRONG
BUT THE EXPERTS SAY THIS SHOUL
BE A SIGN TO DONORS, T
SUPPORTERS, TO VOLUNTEERS, I
YOU SEE THIS ON YOUR FORM AND,
AND WHAT HAVE YOU DONE TO MAKE
SURE THAT THEY GET THERE
READERS CAN GO TO THE WEBSITE.
WE PUT TOGETHER THE FIRST PUBLIC
SEARCHABLE DATABASE OF THE
SIGNIFICANT DIVERSION.
YOU CAN PUT IN THE YAM OF YOUR
CITY, YOUR STATE
IT BLOWS A -- BODES
SIGNIFICANT WAY TO LOOK AT IT.
>> THANK YOU, STEVE, VERY MUCH
>> THANK YOU
>>> OBESITY IS HARDLY JUST A
AMERICAN PROBLEM
MEXICO HAS A HIGH OBESITY RATE
AND GREAT BRITAIN STRUGGLES WITH
THAT PROBLEM, TOO.
NOW GREAT BRITAIN HAS GOTTEN 1
OF ITS LARGEST FOO
MANUFACTURERS TO REDUCE TH
NUMBER OF SATURATED FATS THE
USE.
SIMON HARRIS REPORTS
>> Reporter: FOR THE HEALTHY
EATERS, THE SUPERMARKET SHELVE
CAN BE A MINE FIELD.
TOO MUCH FAT, TOO MUCH SUGAR
NOW THEY WANT US TO PU
SATURATED FATS ON THE WORR
LIST
>> I'M NOT SURE CUPCAKES AND
CAKE, THAT'S NOT THE FIGHT YOU
DO WANT TO HAVE.
SGRZ TWO-THIRDS OF THE YEA
COULD BE SAFE IF THE NATION CUTS
THEIR FAT BY JUST.
A 12-YEAR HEART DISEASE, AND
HEART DISEASE IS COMING THROUGH.
LET'S PUT WERE IGNORING TH
GOVERNMENT'S CAMPAIGN.
>> A MULTIPLE NUMBER OF PEOPLE
NOT SIGNING UP FOR THE DEAL,
GOING ON EATING SATURATED FAT.
AND THAT IS A TRAGEDY.
>> WHAT YOU NEED TO DO TO REDUCE
YOUR RISK OF HEART DISEASE IS TO
AN ADULT, A DIET THAT'S LOW IN
MAGNESIUM FATE
SOME OF THE COUNTRY.
PEOPLE ARGUE THAT IT ISN'T THE
ANSWER
THEY SAY IT NEEDS TO B
COMPULSORY AND LEGALLY ENFORCED.
>>> JOIN US ON THE NEWS HOUR
TOMORROW ON AIR AND ON LINE.
SCIENCE CORRESPONDENT MILE
O'BRIEN REPORTS ON HOW LAS
YEAR'S SUPERSTORM SANDY IS
AFFECTING RESIDENTS.
THANK YOU FOR WATCHING
>> THE WALLACH FAMILY, BERNARD
AND IRENE SCHWARTZ, ROSALIND P
WALTER
CORPORATE FUNDING IS PROVIDED BY
MUTUAL OF AMERICA, DESIGNING
CUSTOMIZED AND INDIVIDUAL GROU
RETIREMENT PRODUCTS.
THAT'S WHY WE'RE YOUR RETIREMENT
COMPANY.
ADDITIONAL SUPPORT IS PROVIDED
BY AND BY THE CORPORATION FO
PUBLIC BROADCASTING.
AND BY CONTRIBUTIONS TO YOUR PBS
STATION FROM VIEWERS LIKE YOU,
THANK YOU.